In every experimental laboratory the need for acquisition and subsequent
logging of data is evident. Typically, logbooks, either in electronic or paper
form, is used to organize large amounts of data. The data is typically stored
locally on the computer from which the data were acquired in proprietary
formats used only be specialized software. When working with different
experimental systems across several computers with different software suites,
operating systems etc. the exchange of acquired data is cumbersome and
difficult.

A solution to simplify and make data exchange easier across several platforms
and is to store all acquired experimental data on a centralized server. This
has a number of attractive features. Firstly, by storing data on a centralized
server simplifies backup of all experimental data enormously. Secondly, the
data is stored in a standardized format which allows easy export of the data to
any platform or software source.

The access to a centralized point of storage for experimental data allows for
real-time continuous logging of various parameters used as indicators for
system health. Critical system parameters can hence be monitored and used to
trigger alarms when these fall out of specified ranges. Furthermore, the
logging of experimental setup parameters continuously enables access to these
values at any previous point in time.

A centralized storage of data can be accomplished in many ways. However, in
experimental laboratories where large amounts of data can be recorded a
database is an obvious choice for storage. Here we present a totally open
source system consisting of data acquisition, storage in a MySQL database and a
comprehensive display module including simple data treatment algorithms.

